Alright, in this video we're going to
get the items, both the query for polling items,
as well as the mutation for creating items.
We're gonna get that up and running.
I found that when I was doing this whole step,
you need to edit like three or four different files.
We need to edit our data model,
we need to deploy it to Prisma,
we need to edit our schema to GraphQL for Yoga,
and then we also need to write a resolver;
either in the mutation or the query or both.
So, my hope with this video is that,
if you ever get confused as to:
what are the steps for adding a new piece of data
to my backend, you can come back to this video
watch it quickly, and hopefully get some clarity
as to what the different steps are,
'cause I find myself getting a little bit confused
with all of the different files as well.
So, first thing we're gonna do,
and we're on our backend here,
we're going to open the data model .graphql.
And remember that this is our schema for Prisma
and then for the database that lives underneath Prisma.
And we have our user in here.
So we're gonna go down here and
we're gonna make a new type called Item.
And for each item it's going to have
a number of different fields; it's going to have
an ID which it has in a type of ID.
That is obviously required and
we're gonna use a directive here to make it unique.
Then it's going to have a title, a description,
and image, a large image, a price, a createdAt,
a updatedAt, and it's also going to have a user,
we'll come back to that in just a second.
Title, description, image and large image,
all of those are goin to be strings,
and the title is going to be required.
The description is required.
The image is not required,
and the large image is not required.
The price is going to be an integer,
and that obviously is required.
And then, createdAt is going to be a DateTime,
which is not a standard type in GraphQL,
but it is exposed to us via Prisma,
so we can go ahead and use it.
Just know that if you're ever not using Prsima,
it's likely that you'll have
to create your own type for DateTime.
Same thing for updatedAt.
And then user is going to, in the future,
we're going to just say it's a user,
and that's going to create
a relationship between item and user.
But in our case right now we don't even have users yet.
That's gonna come in the future.
So we're gonna just, like, comment that out for now.
Now any time that you make a change to
what your data model looks like,
you have to, have to, have to deploy it to Prisma,
because we need to update the database
to know and to expect both of these items.
As well, we also need to pull down our new Prisma schema.
So we'll go back to our terminal here,
and I'm just gonna kill this,
and we're going to run npm-run-deploy,
and that in turn is going to run Prisma deploy
with our custom and variable environment file.
And you can tell it created an item
with all of these new fields on here,
and then it deployed it up,
and it ran our post-deploy hook.
Again this is totally normal.
Don't worry about that.
Hopefully it won't even be there when you are running this.
Then if we go back to our editor here
and open up the prisma.graphql file,
remember that this prisma.graphql file,
this is a generated file based on the datamodel,
the schema that we give it,
it goes and it creates a huge GraphQl file
that has all of the relationships,
and all of the types, and all of the querys,
and all the mutations that are required
for our underlying crud api that sits on top of GraphQL.
And a couple videos ago I was saying how
the comment issue was commenting them all out.
That's fixed now, which is great.
And you can see that since we created a new type of item
we can just search in here for 'type item'.
There we go, type item implements node.
This is kinda interesting actually,
maybe we shouldt ake a quick look at this.
So what we did earleir, in our datamodel
we just had type item, but sometimes
you're gonna see this in GraphQL:
this implements node is very similar to how
in react we extend react.component.
So you can create a base node,
let's see if they even have it in here.
'Type node', oh they don't even have it in this file,
but it's comething that Prisma creates for you.
And it's just that base where is has an ID,
a createdAt, and an updatedAt value for us.
However, if we go down to these mutations here,
you'lls ee that we now have a new set of apis,
which is createItem, there we go.
CreateItem: they create their own input types.
Which is ItemCreateInput.
So if we were to take a look at what that looks like,
this is an input type called ItemCreatInput
thattake in all of the fields that we have.
And again, this files gonna get very, very large
because it also gives us things,
all of the different filters that we want.
The price is greater than, the createdAt is equal to,
the createdAt is not this time,
the createdAt is in an array of different times,
and remember how I said GraphQL is not really
a query language, it doesn't come with anything for
filtering or fuzzy matching, or any of that stuff.
That's what Prisma does under the hood.
Is it creates all of these different filters,
that you'll likely want to use as you build up your site.
So deploying will always push it
up to Prisma and update the database,
and that post-deploy hook will also
pull down a updated version of
that GraphQL shcema that we have.
So we have our data model, we have our type.
Let's go ahead and write our first mutation.
So what are the steps to creating a mutation?
Well first we open up the schema.graphql.
Okay, hold on, why are there so many .graphql files, Wes?
Well our datamodel.graphql, that's for Prisma,
that's for our backend.
The prisma.graphql is what gets generated
based off this datamodel.graphql.
Okay these two things are Prisma.
Now our schema is just our public facing api,
because Prisma has access to absolutely everything,
whereas our schema.graphql is our public facing api,
and that is what we're going to be interfacing with,
with our Java script.
Okay so, we can actually just get rid of type dog.
We can get rid of this create dog.
We can git rid of that here.
We're gonna go ahead and make a method called createItem,
and that's going to take a
whole bunch of different arguments in.
So the title, which is going to be a string,
the description, which is going to be a string,
the prices, which is going to be a Int,
the image, which is a string,
and the large image which is a string.
Now that might seem like a lot,
and it's actually kinda bordering on it,
and what tends to happen is,
as soon as you have more inputs
than starts to seem reasonable,
what you can do is you can take those out and just
make one input called data, and create custom inputs.
That's exactly what Prisma does on the backend here,
when you're creating and item it take one input called data,
and then they use this thing called ItemCreateInput,
which in itself is just a separate input.
That makes it reusable for multiple methods,
as well allows us just to take one input in,
which is sort of like a passing in an object
as an argument instead of passing in
multiple arguments in a function.
We'll leave it as that, so the question is:
what does createItem return?
That's actually going to return an item,
but we don't have an item type yet.
Let's just go ahead and type in the item,
and we're gonna make that required.
But like, where does this type of item come in?
Well what we could do here is we could say type item,
and we could go ahead and start to duplicate
all of the values what we started to put here,
but that doesn't seem great, because like,
we just want all of these fields.
So why do I have to retype it in this?
And what we can do in this schema.graphql is
if it's just the exact same as something
that we've generated in our prisma.graphql file,
we can import them from that.
So the way that you do imports in GraphQL currently,
it's actually not a standard
in GraphQL, there are no imports.
So Prisma actually uses this thing called GraphQL Import,
and it does it via a comment, so this is a little bit weird,
but you put a comment in there, which is the pound sign,
and we just say import-star-from,
and then we'll give it a relative path
to our generated folder, and our prisma.graphql.
And what that's gonna do is it's going to import
all of the types and all the inputs from our prisma.graphql,
and it's going to make them
available to us if we then need them.
And if we don't use them in our schema
it's not going to get imported.
It will simply just take if from here if we reference it.
So by doing that we're able to return a item
without actually having the type of item
to find in this public facing api.
However it will then say:
Oh, I don't have an item type,
I must have to import it from prisma.graphql,
and then it's gonna go ahead and pull in the value
from this generated prisma.graphql.
That's gonna be really helpful
in cutting down in duplicate writing of our code.
So, we've created this.
Let's just double check that it's working.
We'll go to here, our local host 4444.
Refresh the schema, open up the schema,
and you'll see that our queries,
it still says create dog...
Maybe I need to refresh the page.
Oh it's because I'm not actually running it,
'cause I deployed it, so npm-run-dev.
Again a bit of an error here.
GraphQL syntax error.
This is the same error we were getting earlier,
where we put those his in there,
but now we have to actually have a query.
Let's just say items is going to
return an array of items that, just like we had before.
We're going to go in here and write some,
pass some arguments to do filtering in just a second,
but for now let's just do that so it gets up and running.
One more mutation.createdog was defined
in resolvers but not in the schema.
There we go, so, we opened up our mutation,
see we have this createDog, obviously we don't
need that anymore, so let's just comment it out for now.
Any more errors?
Query.dogs is defined so we'll open up our query.
Comment that out.
Really keeps you honest, this GraphQL stuff,
because it is typed you definitely can't let anything slide,
which is great because it's going to catch
a lot of these bugs ahead of time.
So, there we go, it seems to be working just fine now.
And if we look at our queries,
we have our items query and our mutations
have our createItem mutation.
But now what we need to do is to jump into our mutation
and query.js and actually write the resolvers
in order for us to get this up and running.
So, first thing we'll do is open up our mutation.js,
and we will rate our createItem,
that's going to take in this signature
of parent, args, ctx, and info,
and we're gonna write a little to-do here,
check if they are logged in,
again I'll come back to that
once we actually do the authentication,
so we'll say const item is equal to,
and here is where we start to
interface with the Prisma database.
You Might be saying like, okay like,
what is the api for our Prisma database,
and our api for our Prisma database
is everything inside of this prisma.graphql.
So a quick way to see what all of the api methods
are available to us, is you just search for your mutations,
and you can see that we have createUser,
createItem, updateUser, updateItem, deleteUser, deleteItem,
all of these methods are now available to us on our backend
because that's exactly what we're interfacing with.
So we'll go here, and we will take the ctx.db,
so that is how we access our database.
Remember earlier when we did createServer
and we put the database on ctx,
but then how we access the database
is that we can access it via ctx.db.
Another way that we could have done that is that
is we could have exported the database
and then import it into this file,
both ways work just fine, but I kinda like
having access to the database inside of the ctx.
Then we call either .query or .mutation,
so in our case we are going to call .mutation,
and then we have access to all of the different
arguments that we have, so ours
is gonna be called createItem,
'cause again you can quickly reference your thing here,
it's called createItem, and then the
argument that it takes is data.
So, then we could sit here and say okay,
the title is going to be the args.title,
and the description is going to be the args.description,
but because all of the fields that
are being pulled in from the args
need to go directly into the item.
We can simply spread them, so dot-dot-dot args,
and that's the same thing as manually
putting each field and value in.
We can spread the argument object directly into our data.
And the reason why we're not just doing this
will become apparent because we're also going
to have to come back and assign a user to this as well.
So we'll spread the args in.
Then this createItem also needs access
to this info-variable that gets passed,
because among other things inside of this
info-variable is the actual query.
And this ctx.db.mutation, it needs to
take the query from our front end and pass it to our backend
and that's going to specify what data gets returned
from the database when we create it.
So what we'll have to do for almost all of these,
is just pass the info-variable as a second argument
to our createItem, updateItem,
createUser, updateUser, et cetera.
And that will make sure that the actual item
is returned to us from the database when we've created it.
Now one thing we haven't done just yet is that
this ctx.db.mutation.createItem,
that actually returns a promise,
and if we want the item to go into the item value
then what we need to do is make this an assync method,
and then we simply await the
creation of the item inside of there,
and then finally down here we can simply return the item.
Another option that we have instead
of awaiting the creation and then returning the item,
you can simply return a promise
and it will work just the same way.
I like to put it in a variable
and then return the item in most cases,
and that's because if I'm having trouble debugging it
I like to go down here and just console.log
that item as we create it, and that will
give me sort of a spot to be able to do that.
So give it a save, my prettier will clean it up for me.
We have this createItem, let's try it out
on our GraphQL api and give us a refresh.
Make a new thing here, we'll say mutation,
createItem, and we're gonna say the title-test,
I'll just fast forward through this 'cause you can see--
I put these each on their own line.
You do sometimes see me typing a comma after each one.
That is optional.
However it's not necessary, so I'm gonna leave them out.
Then the price of each one,
I just noticed that the price has a capital P on it,
and, oh, it's right here, I accidentally
put a capital P in on the public facing api.
We're gonna make that a lowercase.
And then just refresh that.
And then if I type it with a lowercase P,
it tells me what it is.
One thing about prices in this course,
I always store my prices in cents,
so I never have to deal with fractions,
or rounding, or decimals, or anything like that.
So if you want something to be one dollar,
you make it 100 cents.
If you want something to be 10 dollars,
you make it 1000 cents.
That way we're always dealing with whole numbers,
and we don't have to get into decimals.
I really like that.
Now from the createItem, we also need to return some stuff.
And what do you wanna return from the item?
Well you could return the ID of the item,
and the title of the item, let's just leave it at that.
So if this all went right it should work.
But if not we should see some errors here.
Cross your fingers, run it.
Variable got invalid value title,
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
Field value.createAt of required
type DateTime was not provided.
Ah, we did not pass the createdAt,
but that should be automatically created by Prisma.
So I'm wondering, if we look at our data model here,
I think we actually don't need to specify these two fields,
so let me just go ahead and comment them out.
Any time that you modify your data model,
we'll have to go ahead and deploy it,
so let's try that, npm-run-deploy.
Tells us that we modified these fields here, that's good.
We'll npm-run-dev again, and let's
go ahead and run it again.
There we go, it seems to have worked.
'Cause we ran the function, we passed in these fields,
we asked for the ID of the item,
and the title to come back.
Now, that ID is generated from us,
and the way that we can tell if it actually worked is:
go back here, you can type prisma console,
and that's gonna open up Prisma backend.
You can also just log into it,
or you might have it open already.
Now if we go to our thing that we have here,
on our side bar you see that we have two users,
which we went ahead and created, and one item,
that's the item we just went ahead and created,
we run it again with the second item.
It didn't work because I--
Npm-run-dev, you obviously have to have
this running before you do any of that.
Now if I run it, it worked.
Go back here.
Give us a refresh.
You'll see that the second item is now popping in.
So that is our mutation, we are push-push-pushing it.
Now let's flip over to the other side, which is our query
where we wanna pull-pull-pull these values.
So the whole process gets repeated again.
First, what we do is we go to our schema.graphql,
and we write the query that we have,
items is going to return an array of items,
then we go to our query.js and write that query,
so we can get rid of this dogs here,
the items is going to take in the parent, the args,
ctx, and the info, and from that
we are going to return ctx.db.query.--
And what is available to us?
Again you can either open up your prisma.graphql
and search for query, and it will see
that we have a users query and items query.
Or you can also just open up the Prisma playground
to see what all of your different queries are.
So from the backend you can open up your playground
and this might be a little bit confusing
but this is our Yoga, this is our public facing playground,
and then you have your Prisma playground
which has absolutely everything in it,
and you can see that we have,
this is our items query that we have here, so we can go--
and this should be return.
Now this was going to return a promise which I said earlier
it's fine to return a promise from a resolver.
It's smart enough to know that if it gets data,
to send immediately, if it gets a promise,
to wait for that promise to resolve.
But let's actually put it in a variable.
So const-items-equals-await and then
we will return the items here.
And then make sure you make that an assync operation.
And that should do it.
Let's go back here and write a query called all items.
And from that we need to grab our items.
If you don't see the items pop up right away
hit this little twirly birly and you can get going,
it'll refresh the schema for you.
So if there is no arguments you
don't need to do items like that;
you can just leave parenthesis off.
And for each item I want to return the ID,
and I also want to return the title.
Let's go ahead and run that.
Response not successful: received status code 400.
Okay, I don't know what happened.
Let's debug this ourselves.
Open this up.
There's no errors happening.
So the next thing I would do is--
Okay is this even running?
Is there something wrong here?
Console.log, getting items.
I have to clear this out.
Re-run it.
Same error.
Nothing in here, okay.
So one thing I do like to do is that,
this is not necessarily the greatest error ever,
so what I like to do is open up my dev tools here,
and clear it out, and then re-run all items,
and see if it-- See this is the 400 error
that it's telling us about, so we'll click on that,
and I'll see-- hey!
Much better errors.
This is very helpful in GraphQl,
we're gonna be looking at how
to catch these errors in our frontend,
and display them to the user,
but this looks like a better error.
So the error says: This anonymous operation
must be only defined--
Oh it's 'cause we're also sending this mutation
at the same time, so what we'd have to do is
we'll just name this mutation called createACoolItem.
And then I that...
Ah, one more error.
Field item argument where of
type is required but not provided.
And so it's telling us that we must provide where
which allows us to say, like where the name is like Wes,
or where the idea, or specific idea
where the prices is more than 500,
but that shouldn't matter when
I'm just grabbing a list of items.
You know what, it's cause I'm using the api
to grab a specific singular item
where you do have to say I want them where they
match this criteria.
We just say items, and that should give us an array of them.
So let's see if that fixes it for us.
There we go.
Then now our api of items is pulling itself back
and we get an array of everything.
Now one thing that you can do in this query
is if the query is exactly the same,
both on your Prisma, and on your query,
and this is a fairly common thing
that will happen when you're using Yoga,
you want to make a query, but the query is just
pulling a list of items, or pushing a list of items,
and there's no authentication that needs to happen,
there's no filtering that needs to happen,
there's no custom logic that needs to happen,
so what you can do is if the query is exactly the same
on your Yoga as it is on your Prisma,
you can just forward that query from Yoga to Prisma,
and then it will handle all of it,
and it is not necessary to write all of this code.
So what that looks like is this:
we first will import the forwardTo from our Prisma bindings.
So const,
forwardTo,
is equal to require Prisma binding.
So again remember Prisma binding provides us with,
this is what Prisma binding gives us,
the ability to query our database,
and then we can actually just get rid of all of this,
we'll just comment it out for now,
and we'll just say any time someone
specifically asks for items, we are going
to forward that to the database.
And that should just allow us to use the exact same api
on the server as well as on the client,
and this is particularly helpful if you just want
to quickly mock something up,
or if you don't necessarily care all that much about
adding authentication, and all the checks in place
while you're just trying to get something up,
you just wanna be able to
push and pull data to your database.
You can just forward all of your apis,
and then come back and start to write
custom resolvers as you need to implement custom logic.
So let's triple check that still works.
Query-- Oh!
Please check your connection.
I got a bit of an error here.
forwardTo is not a function.
Capital T I think.
There we go, it's working just fine.
So you can always forward it directly over to the database.
So that is our whole step.
Again let's go through that really quickly:
when you want to add a new type,
you add it to your data model,
then we run Prisma deploy to push
that up to the Prisma service,
that brings down a new copy of our prisma.graphql,
which contains all of our queries and our mutations,
and all of the possible, different,
filters that we could use,
then we go into our own schema.graphql,
which again is our public facing api,
this is what our react application
is going to interface with,
we can create the ability to create new functions,
like create items or query items,
then to match up with these mutations and queries,
we go into our mutations and our queries,
and we go ahead and write the resolvers
to actually complete all the logic that needs to happen,
and this is exactly where all of our advanced logic,
whether it's charging a credit card,
or sending an email, all of that is going
to be happening in our custom resolvers.
So hopefully that makes at least a little bit of sense.
We're gonna be doing it a couple
more times throughout this course,
so don't sweat it too much if it doesn't make total sense.
I found myself that I would need
to do it a couple times first.
I'll see you in the next one.